---
layout: post
title: "About"
description: "About us and the site"
about: true
category: misc
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a name="purpose"></a>

# Objective

	i)Introduction of new technologies which foster the rural entrepreneurship and rural
	employment.
	ii)Interaction with the Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), Community Based
     Organizations (CBOs) and S&amp;T institutions for identifying problems, needs and demands
     from the area and creating a mechanism to provide the best possible S,T&amp;M inputs in a
     comprehensive manner.
     iii)Encourage professionally trained people,institutions and senior experts from the
      respective domain to be part of this program.
      iv) State of the Art Studies on technology transfer for
        a) Zardozi and embroidery - Bhopal, Maheshwar, Chanderi
		b) Handicraft - Gwalior
		c) Textile Manufacturing - Indore
		d) Food processing techniques- Jabalpur,Khargone
		e) Soyabean oil extraction techniques-Dewas
		iv)Encouraging innovation and fostering creativity, downsizing technologies as well as
	 developing new ones through the participation of technical institutions as well as grass root
	 institutions.
	 v)Technologies for physically challenged.
	 vi)In order to fulfill the above objectives the activities that need to be taken up have been
      identified as :
      a)Setting up a Knowledge Resource Centre at IIT Indore.
	  b)Facilitating entrepreneurship by setting up a Business Development &amp; Support
        Cell.
	  c)Undertaking sponsored projects and conducting specialized skills development
		and training programs.
	  d)Conducting workshops, seminars, awareness programs, develop database and
		disseminate information about the various technologies and services available
		locally,regionally,nationally, and internationally.




<a name="design"></a>

# TECHNOLOGY AREAS
	i) Agricultural machinery.
	ii) Sustainable energy (solar, wind, bio-mass).
	iii) Water management (harvesting, irrigation, filtration).
	iv) Waste management
		techniques(Gasification,Incineration,Composting,Landfill,Recycling).
	v) Automation of agricultural processes.
	vi) Information systems to store and process data(Database, Management information systems, Geographic information systems, Total quality management for demand and
		supply management).
	vii) Civil Infrastructure (housing, transport, sanitation)
	viii) Local Crafts (textile weaving, carpet weaving,stone carving,bamboo work).
	ix) Health systems.
	x) Education and training support.
	xi) Technology for physically challenged.




<a name="contact"></a>

# Contact

## Mailing Address
Indian Institute of Technology Indore<br/>
 Khandwa Road, Simrol,<br/>
  Indore 453552 

On the [map],.

[map]: https://goo.gl/maps/QP6aFGVu5SKbX5FD7


## Phone
* Lab: (+91) XXXX-XXXXX
* Office: 


